# project-three


Project Overview: Analysis of Voter Registration Trends in Relation to Marriage and Divorce Rates by State in 2020 vs 2000

The primary objective of this project is to explore potential correlations between voter registration trends and marital status dynamics across different states in the United States. By examining the interplay between marriage rates, divorce rates, and voter registration figures, the study aims to identify if marital status is a significant factor that influences civic participation in the form of voter registration.

The study is designed to shed light on the following questions:

Is there a discernible trend in voter registration based on marital status?
Do states with higher marriage rates exhibit different voter registration patterns compared to those with higher divorce rates?
How do these trends vary across different states, and what might be the underlying factors influencing these variations?

Conclusion
Marriage rates are higher than they used to be
Divorce rates are higher than they used to be
Most states changed party affiliation to Democrat

Legal and Ethical Considerations
Legal and ethical considerations play an important role in data research, data collection and usability. Our project involved the comparison of married versus divorced voters by state. Our objective was to analyze whether there is a trend in the data between which party each group voted for. The data was collected across the United States of America, carefully evaluated for biases and terms of use. No problems were identified in terms of exclusion of populations or human biases. There were no issues related to the topic that could potentially be problematic in terms of equitable impact. We heavily focused on the data being used and how it was collected with thoughtful discussion among group members to determine our own biases. We looked up diverse datasets avoiding discrimination or stereotypes while ensuring sensitive information was not accidentally displayed. We also made sure there was a disclaimer of some sort in regard to individuals being informed about how their data will be used in visualizations. 

References for the data source(s)


The resources we are referring to are licensed under the Creative Commons Public Domain Dedication (CC0 1.0 Universal). This license effectively places these works in the public domain, allowing anyone to use, modify, distribute, and perform the work, even for commercial purposes, without asking permission. According to the details provided on the Creative Commons website, CC0 1.0 does not require users to credit the creator, although it is appreciated when possible. This broad license fosters a vibrant and accessible public domain, where creativity and innovation can flourish without the constraints of copyright.

Link to the creative: https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/

Instructions on how to use and interact with the project: 

Main Branch: 
  - Contains an in-class activity in a text class called, "Algorithm Bias"
  - Contains our slide show presentation ina  file called, "Presentation"
  - Contains a text file that highlights periodic updates on the product progession called, "Status Report"
  - Contains our Read.me


Databranch Branch:
  - Contains a .gitignore file
  - Contains a text file  storing our API Key called "Config.js"
  - Contains our Percent Change in Marriage Rates data set in geojson format in a file called, "MarriagePercentChange.csv"
  - Contains our Percent Change in Divorce Rates data set in geojson format in a file called, "DivorcePercentChange.csv"
  - Contains our Percent Change in Voter Registration Political Party affiliation data set in a file called, "PartiesPercentChange.csv"
  - Contains our Marriage data set in geojson format in a file called, "Marriage.geojson"
  - Contains our Divorce data set in geojson format in a file called, "Divorce.geojson"
  - Contains our Voter Registration Political Party affiliation data set in geojson format in a file called, "Parties.geojson"
  - Contains our json polygons data in a file called, "us-states.json"
  - Contains our legal and ethical considerations information in a file called, "Legal and Ethical considerations.docx
  - Contains our python commands to convert our datasets to geojson datasets in a file called, "GeoPandas.ipynb"
  - Contains a subfolder called, "static"
        - Contains our html link to review output of our project ina file called, "Index.html"
        - Contains a subfolder called "js" containing our javascript in a file called, "logic.js"
        - Contains a subfolder called "css" containing our cascading style sheet in a file called, "style.css"
  - Contains a checkpoint folder for changes to our python files generated by Jupyter Notebook called, ".ipynb_checkpoints"
  - Contains a json exntesion in a subfolder called, ".vscode"
  - Contains all non-functional working files in a subfolder called, "Project-Three-Junk-Drawer-Obsolete"
    




